=head1 Web.pm – a lightweight web framework for Perl 6

=over 1

=item Names:

Ilya Belikin, Carl Mäsak, Stephen Weeks

=item Email:

Ilya Belikin (forihrd@gmail.com), Carl Mäsak (cmasak@gmail.com),
Stephen Weeks (tene@allalone.org)

=item Amount Requested:

$3000.

=over

=item Ilya: 1320$, for 12h/week.

=item Carl: 1100$, for 10h/week.

=item Stephen: 550$, for 5h/week.

=back

=back

=head2 Synopsis

Two years ago, Juerd proposed the Web.pm module for Perl 6. Meant to
functionally replace Perl 5's CGI.pm, it is a revamping of the
fundamentals in order to better serve today's web development needs.

Apart from implementing a working web development toolkit, we intend
to integrate templating as a desirable default, make sessions and
sticky form values (as described in Juerd's email) work, and organize
the framework according to the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern and
the REST architecture.

The structure of the Web framework will be modular, and a web
application writer can choose the parts that make sense for the
particular application developed. As the user's application matures,
more high-level modules can be swapped in to combat the increasing
complexity.

We intend to develop Web.pm in the open, seeking frequent input from
people on #perl6 and #parrot, and from the mailing lists
perl6-compiler, perl6-users and perl6-language.

=head2 Benefits to the Perl Community

Having a simple, well thought-out web development toolkit can be an
enormous benefit to Perl 6 and its growing developer community. There
is good opportunity at this time to coordinate an effort to create
such a toolkit. A web toolkit will increase Rakudo visibility, and
bring more people to try Perl 6 programming.

Applications like November show that it is possible to create a Perl 6
web application today, but that much convenience functionality has to
be reinvented in the web application itself. The fact that a bridge
between Rakudo and Perl 5/CPAN does not exist at this point is an
obstacle, but also an opportunity to sit down and think about the
parts that we want to improve or remake rather than just inherit.

As the past six months of November clearly show, development of
real-world applications is one of the most effective ways to generate
feedback to the Rakudo development team, and to help focus on bug
fixes and features needed for everyday tasks.

=head2 Deliverables

=over

=item HTTP::Request, HTTP::Response and Web.pm modules that run on the
latest release of Rakudo.

=item A URI module based on RFC 3986, using Perl 6 grammars.

=item Web::Tags module for (X)HTML tags generation.

=item Dispatcher and Routines (with REST support) modules for better
controllers code organization.

=item A simple Perl6-ish templater as a replacement for HTML::Template.

=item A slightly more advanced XML-aware templating system, similar to
Python's Genshi.

=item Three web applications that make use of the Web module. (On the
assumption that having three clients to an API gives enough clues
about the different needs clients might have.) The first web
application will most likely be November, the wiki, and the second
Maya, a blogging engine. The third will be a proof-of-concept pastebin
for Perl 6 code with color coding.

=item A tutorial clearly showing the strengths of the Web module
framework, why/when it should be used, and how to get started using
it.

=back

The modules URI, HTML::Template, and Dispatcher already exist in a
working alpha state within the November repository, and are being used
to run the wiki engine. Ilya has begun developing the blogging engine
Maya.

Ilya will post weekly about progress in Russian on the perl6.ru blog.
Carl will blog weekly on use.perl.org. Stephen will blog weekly.

=head2 Project Details

The following stages can be identified in providing the above deliverables:

=over

=item Specifying the basics of a Web framework organized by MVC
pattern and following REST principles.

=item Creating a minimal Web, HTTP, Template and Routines modules that
can host a minimal "hello world" web application with a simple form,
but following the specification.

=item Adapting November to run on top of the new Web framework. Much
of the infrastructural web code currently residing in November will
thereby be the responsibility of the framework instead.

=item Setting up Maya to use the framework as well. Deploying and
start to use it for perl6-blog us soon as possible.

=item Implementing the framework and applications features possible
within the current limits of Rakudo.

=item Condensing the above experience into a tutorial.

=back

=head2 Inch-stones

=over

=item Specifying framework basics: 1 week.

=item Creating a minimal Web framework: 2 weeks.

=item Changing November to run on top of the framework: 1 weeks.

=item Setting up Maya to use the framework: 1 week.

=item Setting up a proof-of-concept pastebin: 1 week.

=item Implementing the features possible within the current limits of
Rakudo: 4 weeks.

=item Condensing the above experience into a tutorial: 1 week.

=back

=head2 Project Schedule

=over

=item Specifying framework basics: 1 week.

=item Creating a minimal Web framework: 2 weeks.

=item Changing November to run on top of the framework: 1 weeks.

=item Setting up Maya to use the framework: 1 week.

=item Setting up a third web application: 1 week.

=item Implementing the features possible within the current limits of
Rakudo: 4 weeks.

=item Condensing the above experience into a tutorial: 1 week.

=back

We can start in February.

=head2 Bios

Ilya Belikin has been working with web technologies since 2000,
functioning as an all-round project manager, CSS and HTML coder. A
Perl developer since 2006, he founded a small web-developing company
2007. He uses Catalyst, TT, and DBIx::Class in his daily work. He is a
productive November committer (280+ commits). He sends Rakudo and
Parrot bug reports. He is one of the authors of perl6.ru.

Carl Mäsak has been using Perl since 2002, and has been an avid Pugs
participant since 2005. He has committed various tests, documentation
files and the occasional Haskell patch, totalling over 100 commits. He
is a Parrot committer, helping the main Rakudo developers with bug
tickets (over 200 so far), patches and minor features. He is one of
the co-founders of the November project.

Stephen Weeks has been using Perl since 2004 for web development and
sysadmin tasks. He has been a Parrot core developer since Feb 2008,
implementing many features in Rakudo.

=head2 OK to publish this proposal?

Yes.

=cut
